---
templateKey: blog-post
title: First votes cast as Electoral College meets – live updates First votes
  cast as Electoral College meets
slug: test-post-1
date: 2020-12-14T01:25:00.000Z
dateModified: 2020-12-14T18:15:46.068Z
description: In statehouses across the country, 538 electors are meeting to cast
  their votes for either Biden or Trump based on the popular votes in their
  states.
featuredPost: false
category: Topic-1
tags:
  - Topic 1
  - Buildings
  - Lights
featuredImage: /images/electoral-college.jpg
---
<!--StartFragment-->

WASHINGTON — Nearly six weeks after Americans voted Joe Biden the next president, the Electoral College is meeting Monday and will make President Donald Trump's electoral loss official.

In statehouses across the country, 538 electors will formally cast their votes for either Biden or Trump based on the popular votes in their states.

Biden, the president-elect, and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris are expected to receive 306 electoral votes, topping 232 for Trump. The electoral votes will then be counted at a special joint session of Congress on Jan 6. before Biden and Harris are inaugurated Jan. 20.

*Follow along for live updates throughout the day from across the country.*

## [Vermont kicks off Electoral College vote, casting first votes for Biden](<>)

[Vermont became the first state to vote in Monday’s Electoral College meeting at 10:11 a.m. ET, with the state’s three Democratic electors voting for President-elect Joe Biden and President-elect Kamala Harris.](<>)

Electors spent no time debating. They each voted, took photos of the ballots on their cell phones and signed the six election certificates that will be distributed to Vice President Mike Pence in his role as Senate President, and others.

Biden defeated Trump in heavily Democratic Vermont by a margin of 66%-31%.

“It’s not my first rodeo up here,” Vermont Secretary of State James Condos, a Democrat, said after the meeting that lasted just 11 minutes.

*– Joey Garrison*

<!--EndFragment-->