---
templateKey: blog-post
title: COVID-19 situation update worldwide
slug: test-post-2
date: 2020-06-14T00:27:58.628Z
dateModified: 2020-12-14T16:16:40.933Z
description: update worldwide
featuredPost: false
category: COVID-19
tags:
  - COVID-19
  - News
featuredImage: /images/coronavirus.jpg
---
<!--StartFragment-->

COVID-19 is a type of coronavirus disease belonging to the family Coronaviridae. The disease is thought to originate from bats and was spread to people through an unknown medium in Wuhan, China. Ideally, the condition is spread by inhalation or close interaction with infected droplets that have an incubation period between two and fourteen days. Today, there are thousands of infections and deaths that have been caused by the disease. Moreover, the symptoms of the disease include fever, cough, sneezing, sore throat, difficulty breathing, and tiredness. Additionally, the diagnosis of the disease starts by gathering samples of the upper and lower respiratory tracts of the infected person. Also, chest X-rays and CT scan are used in the diagnosis stage. Basically, there is no precise treatment for the ailment, and this calls for the need to prevent the disease from spreading. Notable prevention strategies are isolation of the infected persons, proper ventilation, hand hygiene and use of personal protective equipment. Therefore, this paper provides in-depth information on COVID-19 as it discusses the disease epidemiology, transmission, clinical features, diagnosis, treatment and prevention.

See how situation changes worldwide here 

# ***<https://milic12.github.io/covid19-app-reactJS/>***



<!--EndFragment-->